<!doctype html>
<head><title>Home</title>
</head>
<body background-color="red">
15 December 2013
JOHANNESBURG (Reuters)-Nelson Mandela guided South Africa from the
shackles of apartheid to a multi-racial democracy, as an icon of peace and
reconciliation who came to embody the struggle forjustice around the world.
Imprisoned for nearly three decades for his fight against white minority rule, 5
-... Mandela never lost his resolve to fight for his people's emancipation. He was
"1
~ determined to bring down apartheid while avoiding a civil war. His prestige and
~ charisma helped him win the support ofthe world.
c::,
"1
8 English For Today
"I hate race discrimination most intensely and in all its manifestations. I have
fought it all during my life; I will fight it now, and will do so until the end of my 10
days," Mandela said in his acceptance speech on becoming South Africa's first
black president in 1994, ... "The time for the healing ofthe wounds has come. The
moment to bridge the chasms that divide us has come."
"We have, at last, achieved our political emancipation."
In 1993, Mandela was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize, an honor he shared with 15
F.W. de Klerk, the white African leader who had freed him from prison three years
earlier and negotiated the end of apartheid.
Mandela went on to play a prominent role on the world stage as an advocate of
human dignity in the face of challenges ranging from political repression to AIDS.
He formally left public life in June 2004 before his 86th birthday, telling his 20
adoring countrymen: "Don't call me. I'll call you." But he remained one of the
world's most revered public figures, combining celebrity sparkle with an
unwavering message offreedom, respect and human rights.
"He is at the epicenter of our time, ours in South Africa, and yours, wherever you are,"
Nadine Gordimer, the South African writer and Nobel Laureate for Literature, once 25
remarked.
The years Mandela spent behind bars made him the world's most celebrated
political prisoner and a leader of mythic stature for millions of black South
Africans and other oppressed people far beyond his country's borders.
Charged with capital offences in the 1963 Rivonia Trial, his statement from the 30
dock was his political testimony.
"During my lifetime I have dedicated myselfto this struggle ofthe African people.
I have fought against white domination, and I have fought against black
domination.
"I have cherished the ideal of a democratic and free society in which all persons 35
live together in harmony and with equal opportunities," he told the court.
"It is an ideal I hope to live for and to achieve. But if needs be, it is an ideal for
which I am prepared to die."
Friends adored Mandela and fondly called him "Madiba," the clan name by which
he was known. People lauded his humanity, kindness and dignity
</body>
</html>
